So what is GitHub Actions
or what are GitHub Actions?
Well, it's a Workflow Automation Service offered
by the GitHub company.
So GitHub is a company, and that company
offers a Workflow Automation Service called GitHub Actions.
And this service allows you to automate
all kinds of repository-related processes and actions.
Now what's a repository, in that context here though?
Well, we'll take a closer look at GitHub in just a second.
For the moment, it's enough to know
that repositories, in the context of GitHub, are buckets
you could say that contain code
for applications or packages or websites.
So you can store code on GitHub,
and GitHub Actions is a service
that offers various automations around the code
that is stored on GitHub,
around these repositories that hold that code.
And there are, you could say, two main areas
of processes that can be automated.
And arguably, the most prominent and important area
is the area of CI/CD processes,
of code deployment you could say.
Now CI/CD stands for Continuous Integration
and Continuous Delivery,
though the CD can also stand
for Continuous Deployment, for example.
Typically, these two terms are used in conjunction though,
and you typically say CI/CD,
instead of referring to these things
as individual groups of processes.
And combined, these terms are used
to describe and group methods
for automating app development and deployment.
Continuous integration is all about integrating new code
or code changes into an existing code base
by building that code automatically.
So that changed code by testing it automatically
and by then merging it into existing code.
Continuous delivery or deployment
is about publishing new versions of your app
or package or website automatically
after the code has been tested and integrated.
So it's all about automation
and it's about automatically handling code changes.
For example, you might want to automatically upload
and publish a new version of your website,
once you made a change to the website code.
So that's CI/CD,
and GitHub Actions makes setting up and configuring
and running such CI/CD workflows a breeze.
It makes it very easy for you to set up processes
that do automatically build, test, and publish new versions
of your app, website, or package
whenever you make a code change.
But it's not the only kind of workflow or process
that can be automated with GitHub Actions.
Instead, GitHub Actions also helps you
with code and repository management.
It can help with automating code reviews
or issue management.
But to better understand this second group of workflows,
it's important to understand
in detail what GitHub is really about.
So what is GitHub all about?